In this tutorial, we'll make the AI ​​characters a little smarter. Let's add a new feeling to them, which will be
responsible for the perception of damage, that is, if we shoot at the enemy from behind, he
will turn in this direction. First, you need to add a new feeling
to the Senses Config perception component . Click on the plus sign and select the AI ​​Damage sense config from the
list. Change the debug color.
And we will set the lifetime of this feeling at one second. Moving to visual studio.
Let's start with the perception class of the component. Add a header file sense damage.
The logic that we add for the damage perception can later be used for the NPC's sense of hearing.
The GetClosesEnemy function returns the closest enemy. At the beginning of the function, we get an array of actors that
we see. Let's do the following: if the size of the array is zero, that is, we
do not see anyone, then we will call the GetCurrentlyPercievedActors function again.
But we will use a different feeling parameter - damage.
If after this call the size of the array is 0, then we return nullptr.
And if not, then we execute all our logic with an array of actors. Here we have one
special case that we will not consider: if we see a player from our team
and at the same time someone is shooting at us from behind, then we will not handle this situation in any way.
Let's move on to the health component. Let's create an additional function called ReportDamage.
In order for us to get in the perception component the actor that caused the damage, we need to pass
information about the damage inflicted to the perception system. We will now see how this is done.
The function will have two parameters: the first is a quantitative characteristic of the damage inflicted
, and the second parameter is a pointer to the controller of the character that caused the damage.
We create the body of the function.
We will call it in the ApplyDamage function. You can add a call to the very bottom of the function.
We pass parameters: damage and controller.
Here we also need the sense damage header file. We connect it in the health component.
And we return to the ReportDamageEvent function. The function that conveys information about the damage
to the perception system is in the sense damage class. It is static.
The ReportDamageEvent is called.
We can press F12, see what's going on inside. A special AI Damage Event is formed
and transferred to the perception system. As a result, a new actor will be added, which caused the damage,
and in the perception component we can get it using the GetCurrentlyPercievedActors function.
Let's pass all the necessary parameters.
The first is a pointer to the world. We pass it using the GetWorld function.
The second parameter is a pointer to the actor that suffered the damage. We will use the GetOwner function.
The third parameter is directly the actor who caused the damage. This is what we will
receive in the perception component. Let's use the GetPawn function of the controller, which has
damaged us. Next is the amount of damage. We will not use this information in any way in our
perception system. But it's better to pass the correct value. The next parameter is the location of the event.
In other words, from what point the damage was caused. We will simply transfer the position of the enemy character.
The last parameter is the hit location where the damage was caused. We pass the position of our character.
More accurate values ​​can be passed, especially at point damage.
We check all the necessary pointers to nullptr.
If you, for example, want to implement hearing perception so that bots react to noise,
then for this purpose you need a function called ReportNoiseEvent.
She is in the AI ​​Sense hearing class. We compile the project.
For the test, disable the behavior tree logic.
We add the FindEnemy service to the node so that the enemy can be identified.
I also unfolded all PlayerStart in advance so that the forward vector was directed
from the center of the scene. So it will be faster to sneak up from the back to our enemies.
We run up to the NPC character. We turn on AI debug information: press the number 4 on the numpad.
The enemy does not see us. We shoot. He turned and saw us.
Testing with a character who is on our team. Turn on / off debug information so
that debug information is drawn from the character we are looking at. The NPC understands that
we are in it, but does not turn, because we are on the same team with him.